foreign
you want me to kick it off yeah go ahead
Jason okay thanks everyone watching on
streaming watching in
Zoom watching on
um the YouTubes the linkedins listening
on the podcast
um have one of our OG friends uh Nick
meta from gainsight here Nick's done a
lot with us over the years Nick was one
of their earliest parts of the saster
community before we had a podcast or an
event or anything which was great that's
how I met Nick and then he's done uh so
much great content with us over the
years around gainsight and for folks
that don't know obviously we'll talk
quite a through this presentation
gainsight has grown during the course of
saster to be this leading Enterprise
platform for customer success and much
more well into the nine figures of
Revenue and
um I wanted to do a series where we
turned it around a little bit and had
some of our most thoughtful CEOs and
Founders share their 10
um 10 biggest mistakes because if you
look at any of the
640 podcasts we've done under 7 000
pieces of blog content or 10 years of
events they're all basically the same
here are the mistakes I made like me
asking people Nick asking people at the
first Esther annual but I really want to
get some of our smartest thinkers
directly sharing their 10 mistakes so
Nick was the first one to not only raise
his hand but actually do the real work
to come up with a thoughtful list of his
ten and I found them very cathartic
um it went a bit viral for us a ton of
folks read it and so I asked Nick if he
would join our Workshop Wednesday so we
could do it interactive and go through
go through the 10
um and uh I I certainly got a lot of the
feels reading it and I think anyone's
scaling their company is so I wanna I'm
gonna kick it off in a minute and ask
Nick mistake number one and he can dive
in and I might
add a few questions I will add a few
questions and others can at the end but
Nick before we get there
um you set us up a little bit on gain
site over since the start of saster like
not the whole time but you you've been
you've been scaling game sites since as
long as we've been around for 10 years
and shares just a little bit of the
history The Journey how the company's
changed how big it is today from then
yeah totally Jason I really appreciate
it honestly super honored to be on this
on the stage and and one one mistake I
did not make is I read pretty much every
saster blog post over the many years
that was uh incredible for me and
hopefully for a lot of you as well
um so I'm CEO of gainsight um I've been
doing this 10 years which is where this
uh 10 mistakes kind of thing came from
and you know today we are um close to
200 million of ARR just just about
almost there and um and we're about 1200
employees
um we started out as a venture back
company with some amazing investors like
battery Ventures Bessemer Bain Capital
venture is Insight light speed
Salesforce and then a couple years ago
did a deal with a private Equity Firm
called Vista Equity Partners where we
still have some of our old investors
involved but Vista is now kind of the
majority shareholder and as as probably
many of you know our our whole mission
has helped companies uh do a better job
driving success for their customers and
in that process improving net retention
for their business and we do that
through a set of different products one
product about helping you scale your
customer success team one product about
helping you drive better in-app adoption
and experiences and one product about
helping you build a customer Community
one of the things we've had to do over
the years much like saster is really
build a community ourselves because when
we got started customer success as a
concept was pretty darn new so we are I
guess no noted for running a big
conference called pulse which has
happened every year since 2013 actually
also happens in Europe and lots of other
places and we've been fortunate to have
Jason at our conference several times
and then we've written three books on
customer success and actually two more
coming out so lots of stuff over 10
years
um and what um and so I I want to get
into the mistakes but now you're coming
up on 200 that means if you squint like
if you really squint as crazy as sounds
a billions way out there right way out
there on the horizon right how far out
can you can you see like how far out can
you see it as you're coming up on 200.
oh my gosh I I I would say that like
normally I'd say oh yeah maybe three
years out or whatever
um just being vulnerable I have a hard
time seeing out at all right now given
like the diff all the things happening
in the world with you know just the
macroeconomy whether it's inflation or
deflation Go geopolitical stuff and then
obviously AI so it's just candidly very
hard to see out so like within our
little bubble I could see oh gosh this
is you know every company needs to is
moving to recurring Revenue business
model when you do that you got to focus
on that retention you know we've been
fortunate to be the main player in that
space so this would naturally grow and
we can add more products and so yeah it
feels like I could see out to you know
500 million dollars or whatever Jason
but um then put this big asterisk of
like what the heck is going to happen in
the world in the next three or four
years so that's the only thing I I don't
that's a good Insight at your uh I I've
seen and I think the public markets have
seen the bigger you are the more
visibility you have the better retention
I suspect you see in your customer base
the bigger you are as as maybe the macro
issues are the less bad it is it may
still be tough out there but if you
can't see it at 200 that's insightful
well it's interesting it's a good point
like you know there's seeing like the
growth and like the business but then
there's seeing the profitability that
part does get easy you know you talk
about Jason a lot about how just
sticking around and being persistent one
of the things that does happen is you
get bigger is the the SAS model if you
have good retention is quite good right
like you literally can go from burning
money to making money you're more
profitable company now and generating
cash and things like that and it just
happened all of a sudden because if you
have good gross retention and if you
manage your costs well you eventually
become profitable so that's hard to see
when you're really small company but
that does naturally happen What Doesn't
naturally happen I'm going to talk about
it is just like you know growth doesn't
naturally happen you got to figure out
what the next growth Vector is so we'll
talk about that in some of the mistakes
so mistake number one we could spend the
whole time just talking about the state
of the market but let's get to the
mistakes right yeah um we can do a
follow-up of the market a little in a
few months
um mistake number one because this is
the one I I continue to learn relearn
fail to learn half learn
um mistake number one not holding your
leaders to the highest standard so so
dig in here a little bit what's totally
like a mistake here so I'm gonna skip
some of the setup slides because I could
have talked about why I did this talking
about failure and mistakes Jason set
this up well and one thing I'll just say
up front I'm in full humility is most of
the mistakes I've made I've made many
times versus like making it once this is
a quote from somebody else on the
internet but I was like oh that's that's
exactly me
um so one of the things that you know I
try to do those pretty try to model
vulnerability and being just really open
about the mistakes one of our kind of
company models and purposes is to be
kind of a human first business to try to
be bring that Humanity to what we do so
diving into the mistake so the number
one is not holding our leaders to the
highest standard so this is something I
think about a lot because like I
mentioned our company purpose is to be
living proof you can win in business
while being human first and the idea
like everyone around us whether it's a
customer an employee an executive an
investor is a human being fundamentally
and so sometimes the the shadow for me
is sometimes giving leaders too much of
a pass that's like the thing that like I
contemplate a lot and think about
because we're like a super values
oriented company and it's very deep in
our culture and that's all great really
really great
um but I remember a few years ago get
doing our you know our biannual survey
to our employees and you know it's great
feedback and it was positive overall but
some one there's this comment that stuck
out to me I wish all of the leaders
would live up to our values I was like
oh my gosh like that's terrible like
that's terrible that like an employee
thinks that the leaders aren't well
living up to the values and I and it
kind of that statement captured like
honestly many of my mistakes where there
were people over the years who either
were live after the values or in some
cases we're just not performing because
there's two different issues and I let
it hang around way too long because I
was trying to be human first to them you
know give them a shot maybe there's an
opportunity for them to develop you know
all those kinds of things right and like
but this quote really broke my heart
like reading that from the employee and
what they were feeling and what I
figured out was I have to hold leaders
to a much higher standard right like
there's that old expression to those who
much has given much as expected and I
tell my leaders look gain sight like for
great culture it's an awesome place to
work it's really hard as a leader
because I need to be unapologetically
demanding to our leaders because when
the leaders aren't living up to values
or performing everyone else suffers so
much and when the CEO is too weak to
make a change on that like I've been in
the past multiple times that causes all
of the people to suffer and frankly it
causes people to just be like well I
guess Nick is just not is just ignoring
these problems as you have his head in
the sand is he does he not even know
like what's going on you really lose
Confidence from your team and I can
think of you know five or six people by
the way who are all good people in the
generic sense of the term but either
weren't living up to our values or
weren't performing or both and you know
a couple of them I took several years to
act on now I will say in the last few
years I've started to move much more
quickly
um and so I still I'm not perfect to get
hiring but I'm getting better at when
the leader is not working out partying
weighs more quickly and one of the last
things I see in this first lesson is I
also I'm trying to get better at like
really defining what I expect from my
leaders in a lot of detail I had a
LinkedIn to post on this recently and it
seemed like it resonated where what I do
is I have an onboarding document that I
built with my chief of staff for our
leaders so a new leader comes in new
executive whatever I walk them through
this document which is actually quite
long this is just like the summary slide
of it and what that document does is it
takes our five company values right
which are kind of high level and then
actually lists out specific behaviors
we're expecting to allow for a leader to
align to each of those values like I'll
just give you some examples to make it
really tangible right so you know
success for all is whatever values it
means drive you know make sure our
business is driving success for our
customers our employees our investors
and so I expect our leaders to meet at
least 10 clients a quarter it doesn't
matter if your CFO doesn't matter if
your teammate your teammate success HR
so as an example another example is I
expect 10 a quarter in person right yeah
well I love your in-person thing yeah
that's that's the goal I I would say
it's 10 a quarter I haven't enforced the
in person but I do love you're getting
on an airplane thing that's one of the
best disaster posts ever another example
though is bringing your personality one
of our values as child like joy and I
expect each leader to bring their own
personality to the way they communicate
and not just have it be like generic you
know so for example Alka is our CFO
she's amazing she does a newsletter
called The Alchemist alk-m-i-s-t and
she's very deep into like spirituality
and philosophy and she writes from her
own perspective our cro is really into
like do-it-yourself Stephanie he brings
our personality so so really try to make
it super tangible to the leaders about
what I expect and what we need because
if I'm not doing this I'm not doing my
own job well
so that's the first one yeah and let me
just um I can spend almost a whole
session on this because yeah the mistake
number one is maybe the the this and the
second one are maybe the biggest
mistakes of all right are when you lower
the bar and hiring or even just or even
just to find the Box the wrong way
sometimes it's not lower in the bar
although maybe it was in 201 the Box the
wrong so let me just because we all make
this mistake again and again
did you when you look back when you
didn't hold leadership did you know and
made the hire anyway did you where was
the rest of the package good but you
knew that this this these five columns
were not going to be met no no no no no
I I um I suck at interviewing I am I'm
not I'm like my my batting average on
knowing all priori is pretty low I think
I'll tell you there's some learnings
I've had there so most of the time I
hired somebody thinking that they're
just gonna be great okay I did have one
time recently where I hired somebody for
for an executive role where they have a
great resume and they were just okay on
the culture side like okay aligning all
this stuff in the interview and I was
like well you know they're really good
at this thing and it's fine if they're
just okay because we'll help them get
better and what I realized is I actually
need our later leaders in the interview
process to be great at this stuff kind
of like like operating on before coming
into gain sight so that was an example
Jason where my bar was low because I
kind of was so focused on the resume but
mostly I thought they were good and I
just didn't know and then I didn't move
fast enough afterwards was my bigger
problem yeah that one that's always a
good one and that at least move faster
when you know right they never if they
don't get meet those 10 clients a
quarter they're never going to the next
quarter are they no I mean I never will
yeah it's funny that first 90 days or
whatever you see so much right and so
yeah it's really I think it's you gotta
gotta and it's easier by the way to move
fast it's actually more empathetic
frankly like it's easy for somebody to
join a company and leave like 90 days
later it's really hard if somebody
leaves like a year and three months
later afternoon because they've already
put their imprints on the team they've
hired new people they've reorged blah
blah and then all of a sudden they're
gone it's like the worst possible time
to leave is like a year and three months
in or something right so okay I gotta do
just one more and then I won't take up
all your time but because you said
something in the beginning which I think
is a challenge for a lot of leaders so
you're one of the highest rated CEOs in
Glassdoor right
um I think right um and so probably gain
sight is as well correct yeah yeah it's
good for sure yeah so let me ask you a
meta question because you said in the
beginning about how tough to be on the
team right I sometimes advise Executives
to be careful working for a nice CEO
yeah I say be careful and I say be
careful not only because sometimes you
don't know where you stand and with an
Ico I also see be careful because you
may be thinking it's an easier job than
it is because they seem nicer oh looking
for Nick would be so great uh 10 clients
a quarter I don't maybe I can't do that
but boy this seems like my dream job
um how do you balance being kind and
arguably nice and hitting these goals I
don't think it's that simple no it's so
it's so true Jason and I think first of
all I think we all have to look at the
last few years of the bubble and be like
hey there's things we could get away
with then and like you know we felt
really good at our jobs and I I don't
know about you but I feel like you know
a lot of that was just like inflated by
the last few years and so we all have to
get much better I need to be a much
better CEO to even achieve the same
results
right and so uh we're having a
conversation actively internally about
how do we get clearer with people about
what do we expect from them not just
leaders but all employees and I think I
think it's totally possible to be kind
and demanding like like you did not have
to be a driver's talking to somebody
yesterday and he was talking about this
famous CEO and how they would just like
be completely mean to people on email
and things like that you don't have to
do that but I think you can tell people
like you know I like I'm disappointed
with the progress we've had on this and
by the way if you talk to my leaders who
are all my direct reports I'm a mate
they're amazing I love them they're so
great I think most of them would be like
oh my gosh Nick is very demanding Nick
is not yo but the actually by the way I
think this is true of a lot of CEOs like
especially as they get bigger Brands
like the external is is all very shiny
and stuff but the closer you get the
more it's like oh it's hard to work for
them not in a bad way it's just like my
expectations are really high because we
want to do great things you know and so
I I think we have to figure out what
that means for the average employee in a
company now because even the
expectations for the employees has got
to be higher because the expectation for
the CEO has got to be higher like we all
have to raise our bar because we've all
been kind of getting to pass the last
few years and it's gonna happen and how
many employees does game site have today
about 1200 that's a lot do you find I
don't want to so I don't want you to
quantify this um uh but are all are most
folks really up for that I find to be
honest they're not because this these
Good Times lasted too long they lasted
two years right and everyone
intellectually gets that we have to be a
better CEO a better vpsl VP of Cs VP of
Market they all get it but I don't find
that the majority of people are actually
willing to do it
um it lasted too long I think it's the
one of the real dangers of you know all
the stuff that led to this point where
people get used to a certain way of
working and lifestyle and everything
else right all of us not me everyone
right and I think you're totally right
Jason like it's you you find that you
know new people coming in like they come
in with a little bit more fresh
expectations so you can Define it and
what I find is actually there's a little
bit of a barbell you know gain sight we
have some people that work a lot of
people that worked here five six seven
eight nine ten years and they actually
have been here so long that they're here
just because they believe in it and
they're like willing to do whatever you
know yeah and then you have some brand
new they bounce and they bounce back or
bounce left or right really quickly
right whatever yeah changes right and
then you have some new people that are
like like tabula Raza like just okay
they'll do whatever you define and I
think it's the people that join tech
companies last three or four years where
you know they were hired under really
different presumptions and environment
right that's where there's nothing wrong
with them I mean it's wrong with like
the system it's not their fault but I
think there's a reset that they're gonna
have to go through either inside that
company or maybe switching jobs or
switching Industries or whatever but
yeah definitely yeah definitely a big
reset happening
okay so mistake number two I keep make I
learned a lot this one too over the
years the yeah this is so so good this
is it's so funny because it feels like I
shared this with my team and they're
like are one and two kind of
contradictory so number two is basically
like uh you know not betting sometimes
on the team that got you there and this
ties to what I was just saying about
some of the long time people and
especially in these like more
challenging times you know grit is kind
of like one of the most valuable you
know scales out there and so the the
thing that kind of inspired me here is
like so many CEOs including me have had
this feeling at some point where like
it'll all be fine once we get a new head
of X in fact the um investor in some
startups and very fortunate to be
investor with Jason some startups and
like I you know I remember some
entrepreneur like years ago being like
telling me hey you know every you know
we're we're great all we need is a head
of sales and everything is going to go
great and I'm like it's possible that
that's true and I really hope for your
sake that that's true and it's possible
there's a lot of other things you need
to work God right and so there's this
like danger that the shiny experienced
person with this certain background is
gonna fix everything in my company this
is not to say people with experience
don't add a lot of value in fact you
know we've had some people come into
game site that really experience are
have had a big impact which is really
great but you know honestly I've also
found a lot of swing and misses you know
and we all have this if you do this long
enough you have so many stories of
swings and misses of like had a great
resume everything looked awesome it
turned out maybe they weren't as great
as they they seemed but also turned out
gainsight was more complicated than we
thought and it wasn't a quick fix and so
for me one of the things that I'm taking
away is you can start thinking God I
gotta hire the person I'm gonna need
four five six years from now so they
need to be some big scale blah blah and
maybe if you were growing 300 a year
you'd need that but in this new world I
think more most is like the peop we need
the people we need now and many of those
people you need now might be in your
company so in my in my company is an
example Kelly capote's our CCO Chief
customer officer now obviously a very
important job against I you know she
started gateside as a CSM five years ago
all Catan is our CFO she start she
started as our head of FPA and these
people are just crushing it or had our
chief chief people officer started my
chief of staff you know and I think one
of the other things that happens as you
get bigger is there's a lot of knowledge
about just how your company works and
it's harder for something outside to
attain that this is why when you get to
really big companies and really storage
companies there's very little senior
hiring most of the people in these huge
companies grew up in the companies and
moved around and so creating that
ability in your company for people to
try new things I think is a great
opportunity
yeah this whole concept of topping
people was something in the older days
we were kind of taught you had to do
right that there were certain inflection
points there were the one to ten people
the 10 to 40 and you would always have
to top them not fire them but top them
and now that I watch now that it's we've
been doing this I watched my old team
from Adobe sign Echo sign none of them
needed to be topped I look at Jameson
SVP of sales all the way writing 200
plus million dollar company size sense
all these folks Brax I'm not saying that
some of them will finish everything on
the way to a billion right but none of
them needed to be topped or even if
sometimes they were topped and you know
what happened at the top left yeah that
was just as common the person that was
brought in to be the ccro or the ccco
left and that person is is running the
place today still right it's it's crazy
I mean so many times it seems like
there's an instant fix and that top
person is going to do it and the truth
is honestly it's just there's a lot more
work you need to do as a Founder as a
CEO maybe it's understand strategy maybe
it's in your product maybe it's on
literally getting you know the people
that are get the business to be in the
right position you know to have the
responsibility you know so it's hard to
abdicate the responsibility this is
probably the mega learning is it's all
just a lot of it comes back to you you
know you're looking for the quick fix
from the outside but a lot of it's about
you so um I don't know if that's good or
bad lesson for anyone I think it's good
I just love this point it's just a
reminder all you know that leader
at least there's a 50 chance that leader
already works for you right that's
exactly that's at least at least Source
the best internal candidate you possibly
can yeah if they if they know gain site
for four years an outsider will never
learn what they learn there's not enough
time they will never catch up will they
in terms of domain expertise 100 and and
culture X understand how the company
works and things like that right so
totally right okay so let's go to should
we go to three let's go to three okay
this is uh getting more like I guess
practical right so you know this I think
a lot of companies have this we
definitely did which is you know scaling
up uh meaning you know hiring people and
hiring sales people whatever but not
doing it based on like true leading
indicators so you kind of get over your
skis um and you know the truth is like
this happened many times again site but
probably three like significant times so
I remember the first time we got like a
seven figure deal like early game sites
history right and it was like oh my gosh
there's gonna be so many more of these
and we're like let's hire the strategic
Enterprise team and yeah sales people
and we literally didn't get like another
one of those deals for like five years I
mean look at the guest three it's crazy
it was like and by the way the people we
heard were great they're super nice but
they're just like we the market wasn't
there and what product wasn't ready and
another example is you know we bought
this awesome technology our in-product
app technology but it was basically raw
technology we were like hey this is a
market let's take this raw technology
and I said I made this mistake if I set
a big Target for year one let's hire a
whole bunch of sales people you put the
sales people into a model you say here's
a quota and here's the attainment and we
completely flubbed on that first year
now that business is doing really well
years later but like that idea that you
can somehow Just Launch something and
immediately be at you know 10 million of
AR without anything it just doesn't work
and then how much longer did it did it
take two years longer than you thought
for the whole product side to take off
three years longer three years okay so
now it's great but yeah definitely three
years and then the third one is like you
know which I think maybe a lot of people
made which is you know we have that like
2021 like early 2022 total like like
everything went off the charts for us
and probably everyone and you know of
course that meant we hired a lot of
people we luckily we didn't go as over
our skis as some companies did so we
didn't have to do any big downsizing or
anything but but still like we got over
our skis and so each one of these the
common thing was we just did not have
well thought out leading indicators to
know if there was really a trend here or
not you know and so and obviously this
is like every business has to figure it
out whether it's like it I don't think
it's just as simple as pipeline by the
way I think it's really looking at like
what are the high quality a customer
engagement activities that really
correlate to sales that are going to
happen the expression I love if you've
ever read Jim Collins books he says fire
bullets on cannonballs which basically
means you start with like small
experiments so for example with that
acquisition we did you know we should
have started with a small tiger team and
of like three people and figured out
what we could sell we would have figured
out it wasn't really ready for the main
market yet you know instead we literally
went went to like zero to 40 people and
go to market in like two quarters right
like that was the level of mistake we
made there so this is going just for
catharsis for folks listening watching
Etc looking back 2021 things are crazy
everyone needs a success in product so
everyone's throwing money at growth but
but but what did you miss objectively
what did you miss obviously things were
the multiples were crazy right but but
you have to also play the cards you're
dealt you it's not like you weren't
going to close deals right so what is
what was the real mistake looking back
at it yeah the specific mistake in our
case was like yeah we you know we we
um uh you know in sales you can hire
ahead
um and you kind of have to right you
have to hire have to right you have to
and um but one of the I think one of the
mistakes sometimes people make is they
think that like their ideal customer
profile will naturally expand and so for
example like in our case right gain
sites like the standard and pretty much
every SAS company out there which is
great we're really fortunate for that
and but we're like well this is the time
time where it's going to go to Every
company in the world in every industry
and so you hire the people in financial
services and Telco and Healthcare or
whatever to go after them right but with
very limited proof points and so that's
that's where this idea I think what's
one big thing people Miss is like the
ideal customer profile is like truly an
important thing and it doesn't naturally
just grow you can grow it by improving
your product or changing your marketing
but it doesn't just naturally expand the
other thing by the way is it's very
natural also when you're thinking about
scaling to then say we need to add a lot
of overheads we're going to add you know
and by the way these are all awesome
things but enablement Business
Development product marketing Etc which
are all great like and we have great
people and all the functions but like
it's all presumed upon all those new
sales people being productive and if
they're not productive all those extra
overhead Investments are also a huge
waste right yeah it's not just the cost
of the sales people it's all the
infrastructure you put in to make those
sales people successful
good good insights yeah expanding your
ICP too quickly and Good Times uh you
got to be careful know exactly what
you're doing right when you expand
outside of your sweet spot that's
exactly right I'm trying to hit some of
these quite quickly because I know we're
gonna run out of time so you know fourth
one is kind of again getting pretty
tactical which is that's a good one yeah
it's it's funny when you have like if
you have an online plg type business
like I I love it like that's so amazing
because you know the pricing is the
pricing of the website but if you have
an Enterprise business a lot of these
kind of businesses early on it's like
well how much do you want to pay for the
software and do you want to do a do you
want to pay based on this or that and oh
yeah we'll add this feature in we'll
charge for this but this other customer
won't charge for and so you end up with
is just this kind of hodgepodge where
like every deal feels like oh you know
we'll just do this deal it's a little
different pricing or different structure
they want to do it on their paper not
ours but it becomes really really hard
to scale and so the end result is like
gain site you know 1200 people a couple
of 100 million of AR like you know we've
got great you know great systems for
customer success and things like that
but for actual like like literally
knowing the entitlements and the
contracts and all that you know it's a
mess
um and we're trying to work on it now
but it's actually really hard to fix
once you're far in you know and so to me
there's like it creates complexity the
customers are like wait I can't read
your quote you know the teams are like
it takes like 10 minutes to enter a you
know five 500 order and it's hard for
like us to analyze our business and so
kind of the learning to me here is you
know custom deals seem great at the time
but make sure they're really worth it
they have to be big enough to worth it
and it'd be worth it and then invest in
back office systems early so you're
counting your cpq all that stuff is
pretty good I'm not talking about when
you're a little startup but if you're
100 200 employees start getting that
stuff right because when you're a
thousand employees it's really hard to
fix it I think I think I you actually
want to get this right before you have
eight to ten reps otherwise yeah I mean
it's custom yeah like I'm afraid of cpq
as early as you can even the most basic
version it yeah it haunts you um let me
ask you one related question on this
there's an early saster post I've
updated and like 80 of the sales
Community hates me for it including our
our current little saster sales team
hates me for it which is that your
however you do pricing the Enterprise it
should be as if you should be
comfortable every other customer knowing
what every customer is paying then it
simplifies your life sure you're going
to do a custom deal for for for sap or
Cisco great right but but Cisco's so
specific it's okay if everybody knows or
sap right what do you think of this idea
that you should be able to share every
customer's deal with every other
customer oh my gosh it's such a good
point because yeah totally when you
start out you're like well this one
customer and then this other customer
and what you forget and I think Jason
you're alluding to this is over time
people move around and they're like they
go from company a to Company B in the
back wait how come I was paying this for
gain side here and this for gain side
here we have this problem big time and
then you know it's fair yeah exactly
unfair pricing also is exhausting it's
kind of like lying like it works but
it's tiring you got to remember every
deal so you don't get caught in a web of
discounting that's a good point easiest
thing to remember is the truth yeah it's
and so we have not been great at this
and we're trying to simplify it and
clean it up but it's harder as you get
bigger so great great lesson okay go
I'll go on to five have this is a total
gain site Homer one but actually
interesting enough it's something even
we didn't do as well as we should have
early on which is basically like part of
customer success is of course there's
humans working with customers and like
going out to see customers I love that
that's amazing right but I think you can
kind of like if if all you have is csms
it's kind of like that old analogy if
all you have is a hammer everything
looks like nails if all you have is csms
and like a kind of a people driven
approach then it looks like everything
requires a CSM and so kind of what I
would say here is just early on get a
lot of the basic stuff in place like you
know people should be able to open a
ticket online have a great documentation
site maybe consider a community have
like in-app guides these are cheap
simple things to do
um you know gainsight offers some of it
but you can other companies do too but
doing some of that early really really
sets you up so you don't just have to
throw people infinitely at this problem
and just some specific examples we put
here like like definitely kind of like
an onboarding guide in your app or you
know have a really good knowledge base
and really good videos on it um you know
figure out some ways to do like
one-demandy Communications to your
customers some of the stuff can do super
cheap you don't even need third-party
Tech I would just really get some of
this going early so it doesn't become an
infinitely scaling people problem
and Nick I this one I this is this I
think this is actually a very
fascinating topic we can spend a whole
session on because of course I agree
like there should be a checklist it's
like if you want to acquire customers
you should do it all you should do
webinars you should do contact me you
should do a demo you should do like
don't pick one let buyers buy the way
they want to buy right let them on board
and learn and succeed the way they like
right do they like do they like a
community do they like a Wiki do they
like whatever so I think you got to do
all of it which is part of your point
right exactly right and so do and I like
this checklist idea they're literally
you should do all of it right not some
of it but my anxiety I have my anxiety
is I see and this is not new but I see
it accelerating more and more folks
don't want to do anything for their
smaller customers yeah they think that
Automation and even worse they're these
new AI products I don't know if you've
heard about them but but people are
excited they can talk to their customers
even less because because my chat API is
going to solve all my and you laugh but
no I hear this all the time time that
we're going to stop supporting our
smaller customers with our with our 360
onboarding Portal right right I was
talking to a actually a high profile SMB
tech company and they went through this
exact same thing you know 2 300 million
of error and they're like yeah we don't
need any people talking to our customers
and so they basically part away with
their entire CS team and then the person
that like ended up owning that he's like
that was a huge mistake and they had a
huge churn and so it's not like they
need to have a total Enterprise approach
those customers but you know ideally
you've got some of this digital stuff
and then you've got a way to intervene
with customers and yeah I totally agree
it's got to be a hybrid Jason yeah
especially the SMB ones it's just where
I hear this and I just worry right and
actually ironically smbs sometimes need
more hand-holding because they have less
internal capability and they're like
more distracted so it's kind of weird
like you know the smallest customers
sometimes need the more help so I'll
tell you a quick metric and I go on what
I've learned is that SMB SAS now that
does true onboarding that's like it's
not instant deploy right you can't
deploy in 60 seconds I find typically
speaking their total onboarding plus
success plus so sales head count equals
their sales head count it's one I can
totally and I think that that's not what
we're used to in the traditional
Enterprise sales I don't know what the
ratio is it's probably two to one two
and a half right yeah right maybe
pushing to three to one when you want to
get profitable right but I'm shocked
that the leader is an SMB that I work
with have this one-to-one ratio right if
there's humans involved you've got to
get enough of them right totally no I
totally see that so okay so number six
is you know kind of Switching gears one
of the things that you know happens in
business this is such a good one Nick
slow this one down yeah let's slow this
one down this is one of the top life
mistakes oh my God so many people make
those Executives sdrs all across the
Spectrum let's slow six down I love it
all right so I made this LinkedIn post
you know actually I don't know five six
months ago and that's actually literally
the most engaged thing I've ever done on
LinkedIn and it was literally I wrote
this thing that says I are so many
companies weird to teammates when they
leave businesses have a strange
expectation they can fire people anytime
but if teammate leads they think of it
as some kind of betrayal
I posted this and they were like like
like a thousand comments from people
about their stories about like you know
a company like them saying that being at
a company for six years and then them
resigning and then the company the CEO
like never talking them again or like
like walking them out the door and so I
just never understood why people need to
be so weird about this and because like
first of all they're human beings so
like Katrina well and then also these
relationships will constantly come back
to you because those people could be
clients or they could come back to your
company and right and I think this is
true both for your employees leaving but
it's also true for churn you've written
about this too Jason like she's when
people are turning treat them well on
the way out you know assume that they're
making a decision that makes sense for
their business and by the way if you
have a good product you stick around
they'll be back like a couple years
later and so just this idea of ending
relationships well is something I
constantly tell myself
yeah I just I just think this one if if
for anyone in the front middle or back
at any level and for the CEOs
um be gracious to anyone that helped at
all totally I mean of course be gracious
to those that help not at all but most
frustrated we feel especially when folks
leave in a position of trust in a senior
position without someone to replace them
we do feel betrayed no matter what we
say all CEOs feel betrayed right we
already can't help it right but be
gracious and people the LA people since
2020 quit on 60 seconds of notice is
what's yeah exactly it used to be 30
days uh I quit I quit my first job when
I was on my first job I gave them 70
days of notice
um I did another job where I gave him
100 days notice now it's nanoseconds
right
um it's not worth it to leave that way
either is it uh spend the time it's just
these things reverberate and uh it's
just this the biggest unforced error I
think in your career on either side
right it's the biggest unforced air
these stories like one and one ended up
okay and one end up not great so one you
know I've I've tried to practice my my
whole career and but I'm a human like
you said Jason like you have that
initial like when an employee key
Employees leaving or a customer's
turning it sucks it sucks and especially
for surprise frankly you feel
embarrassed and things like that so the
two stories I remember one of our
leaders you know like was leaving and
you know told me about it and it was
like kind of very I should have known
but it's very sudden and and I thought
things were going great and I was like I
can't believe you're leaving like you're
leaving the whole team in a Lurch and I
try to make them feel guilty and I and
then I'm like why did I say all that by
the way the good news is that person is
I'm still super close to and I like I
kind of changed the way I thought about
it and then then I had a customer early
on again site you probably some folks
watching your early stage startup you'll
have some customers turn early and super
frustrating especially if you put a lot
of work into them and with this high
profile company turn and we did a bad
like we they they were not fair to us
but we could have been the bigger person
and just like been nice to them and like
been like okay whatever but we didn't
and honestly like it means that like
we'll probably never work in that
company ever again and it sucks it's
like a pretty big company you know but I
don't think yeah and so you just don't
want to burn these Bridges right and so
like ending relationships to human first
way and honestly I'll show you maybe a
positive example where like I've got a
point where like on LinkedIn or whatever
I just like celebrate all our alumni all
the time like this is like Brian Hamlin
one of my dearest friends you know one
of our old sales leaders did an amazing
job at gainsight as cro at this company
called muckrack now it's just awesome to
see people thriving and hopefully you
get some joy out of it that like you
know they're off somewhere else but like
they're doing a great job right yeah I
mean you have the best Alumni network
ever from Echo sign Jason and I can see
how proud you are right so let me just
ask you on a tip I hadn't I thought a
lot of this about your careers right
both at the at the at the CEO and the
sub VP and the IC level for customers I
see so much lashing out in 2023 La I
mean vendors lashing out of customers
are leaving it's evil but do you from a
best practice perspective from game site
have you learned earned a rule to put in
place so that uh to mitigate this to
have is there is there a magic idea for
off-boarding is there something so that
you can stop the frustration the team
might have right and not accidentally
vent on customers yeah I think there's a
few things so like you know obviously
you want to train your team to like when
it happens
um you don't want your team to feel like
bad themselves because lots of times
it's not just like that CSM or
salesperson's fault like it's just a
systemic issue and you know things like
that so I think one issue is if you come
down too hard on your team it's going to
show up to the customer so be careful
about that so for example whenever we
have a churn A game site you know I
always start the meeting be like look
we're just here to like we'll do a retro
meeting and we're here to learn like
because all of us can learn and get
better this is not about like who did
what or whose fault it was right so I
think there's some element of how you
react as a CO to your team which will
percolate to the customer that's one
thing second thing is I think you create
some nice materials like we have that I
think like we have a guide it's I think
it's called like life after game site
right and it just talks about getting
your data back and stuff but it's just
nice to like put some thought into that
because it'll happen you know and by the
way so many of those people come back
later on if you treat them well
um and I think you know then realizing
like listening to the story of the
customer you know if they're like in
real financial hardship you know do you
need to collect that last three months
of payment like like you don't don't you
don't you don't right like it doesn't
matter if it's not going to occur you
don't do you you don't like like be like
the bigger person then later on they'll
come back and you be a customer again
and so but if you are do the opposite
you're really tough on your team and the
team's mean to the client and you take
that last you know out you know that
last dollar out of them they're never
gonna deal with you again right and so
people's memories last long when you
treat them badly you know
um so this is such a such an easy one in
my opinion to do let me just share a
quick story for folks listen you're
watching Nick and I are both investors
in a company of a super kind of driven
CEO and they just a couple months ago
they lost one of their earliest logo
customers 400k a year but the customers
won the customers struggling right the
big public company but two a new VP came
in and brought in their new vendor right
and immediately got rid of them
immediately and uh they would have done
it anyway but I I said to the CEO just
go fly there thank them and see if you
can keep the smallest amount of the
business four thousand of them yeah 400
000 and I think they kept ten thousand
okay some residual use and sometimes
this is pretty easy to do hey I'm
churning I mean it never happens I'm
leaving gain site but I have a small
team that loves it let this team keep
using it yeah right and anyhow for this
story this was just a couple months ago
this new VP immediately got fired and
they're bringing the app back
that's yeah no that's right usually that
takes a few years but in today's world
it could take a couple months they're
literally gonna Boomerang back in single
digit months because the new VP didn't
take stay in the game I think that's
such a that's a good keep a little bit
of the bit like not like do whatever
imagine you're re-earning a fraction of
the deal it that always works doesn't it
to keep keep it going it never doesn't
work totally totally agree keep the
relationship going keep driving back
sorry this one
this would resonate I think a lot with
the people that deal with customers a
lot so the basic idea in in this kind of
this one is like you get started with a
company and you know you're you sell
some kind of software and and then you
know you go to a customer you you demo
it and then you're implementing and then
the customer's like okay so how should
we implement this you know how should we
configure it and you're like I don't
know because I just started this company
like a few months ago so I don't know
how to use it and the customer's like
well but you guys are the experts I'm
like no we're not the experts yet and
but so you get early on it's very
natural that you kind of like figure it
out with the customer maybe they know
how to do it but you know a few years in
you know you could still be that same
situation where the customer says how
should we Implement you say I don't know
how do you want to implement it right
and that's a real problem and we made a
mistake on that went too long with
gainsight of like implementing it in too
many different ways based on like not
having a prescriptive methodology and so
the issue with this is first of all a
huge chunk of time to Value problems and
software are because the vendor is not
prescriptive there's too many different
choices instead of saying this is the
best practice way to do it yeah second
of all every client uses you differently
so it's hard to actually make the
software better because like one
client's using it this way one client's
using this way now you introduce a new
enhancement you have to make it work
with this scenario and this scenario and
then third is you bring new people in
how do they learn because they need to
learn like a thousand different ways to
use your software right so it's a real I
don't know how you do the third point
but that's and so so this is like the
people have to learn like through
apprenticeship over years and years
basically right and this was game site
for many years and like honestly our
time to Value literally went from like
you know months and months and months to
now it's like average four weeks and a
big chunk of it was this
um of being more prescriptive now it's
hard to do it so what you need to do is
you have to get one together product
marketing say LCS and you need to kind
of figure out okay what are the like
here's the different things people are
trying to achieve with our software like
the five six goals here's the different
stakeholders we've got and then here's
the like way to kind of like configure
the software to meet those goals here's
our best practice recommendation you
have to keep it updated as you do new
releases and then the big thing is you
have to coach your teammates to be like
hey we have a methodology so you know
the clients can do whatever they want
but you should really be brave and like
show them like what our recommendation
is here and so just to make this real
tangible like we literally have a
websites online
um we'll eventually put on our core
website it's on Coda right now that
basically you know we have all of our
best practice on customer success so if
you want to do a best practice on
optimizing your CS workflows or building
a value realization plan or mobilizing
Advocates you like click into this and
it goes through every little detail of
like how to configure game site but also
how to run the processes and your weekly
meetings and so then our new our team
new person comes in they can learn
through this they use this with the
clients it is a total game changer
yo one quick question I've done I've
worked with a lot of startups where uh
we religiously get our onboarding timing
down right yes um but it's time to value
your core kpi here that that's a new one
to me but I do love it if it is the cork
API well I think time is funny I think
it's people use the term time to Value
so loosely right so what is value versus
onboarding we're talking primarily about
first value which is often what
onboarding is which is
time till you can do something in gain
sight right so in our case it might be
time to you can you know see a view of
your customers and see customer help
yeah and that might be before you're
fully onboarded time before you come
before and you know how software works
like there's always new things so fully
onboarded is almost like a perennial
thing but are they getting enough value
that they feel like okay I'm getting
something out of the software that's
kind of like what first value is all
about and you have folks sign off on it
so everyone can track that metric so you
can turn it into it really good point
one of our best practices embedded in
this little thing here value realization
is then that you define what's called a
verified outcome with the client and you
actually capture that and then you in
this case you store it in game site and
then later on you're you're talking to
procurement and procurement's like hey
we never got any value out of the
software like well your stakeholder said
that they generated you know 30 more
leads because of you know gain site or
whatever so absolutely track the value
yep okay number eight is oh sorry this
is a prescription when we talked about
this number eight is um not okay this is
so big I can't believe I've buried this
till the end not so starting act too
fast this one's so big oh my gosh it's
like basic the basic idea of going back
to our ICP conversation is that you know
you you have a natural kind of tan for a
given ICP and it maybe grows over time
so for example ours was like SAS
companies and you know they have
customer success and now other other
needs and that that grows naturally
which is great but you know eventually
you can you can kind of exhaust your Tam
and kind of get over your skis gravity
eventually kind of gets to everyone
right where you're like okay I'm hitting
the walls of my Tam and the basic
problem is that like a growth business
is valued on its growth and your ability
to raise capital and get people excited
is on your growth and if you wait till
you start slowing down a lot and then
need to go launch something new but you
have to create it and you have to raise
money for it and that might take three
four five years you're in a trap and so
kind of that really really can hurt the
business because you're basically
slowing down and your company's getting
less valuable which means you have less
resources to invest to speed up again
and so what you need to do is really
start act two early we didn't do this
well so early on so just some I wrote a
whole blog post on this at some point
you know we started seeing a Slowdown in
our business when we're about 50 million
of error and we just kind of we
literally were the whole market so it
was like you know there weren't any more
companies to sell to I drive up and down
101 in the Bay Area and be like that one
we that's a customer that's a customer
that's a customer that's a customer who
do I sell to you next and so but we
hadn't started something else and so it
turned out some the next thing for us
was some of these other products but we
were basically like late and so just
being totally honest what happened was
we slowed down and this is pre you know
this is pre-covered it's like 2018 or 17
or something and then we went out to
raise money and I was like wait you guys
are slowing down I'm like no but we're
going to invest money and speed up again
and that's not a very good investor
pitch right
yeah tough sell we couldn't raise any
money we did actually end up doing a
debt round which worked out great
because we actually ended up you know
making becoming profitable doing the
deal with Vista but like that wasn't a
good Strat like the whole thing was we
should have started some of those things
earlier and seen kind of that slow down
earlier
um so I would just say in this one like
tracking The Tam extremely Vigilant
vigilantly like not just the Tam side
you build for your investors like who
cares about that your ideal customer
profile how many accounts there are how
many you penetrated and be really like
tough like are these really your ideal
customers or not and then for the stuff
that's not in your ICP what are the
experiments we're running it could be
organic could be M A to go get more but
don't let you hit the wall and then try
to figure out a Grove because you're
you're in trouble at that point do you
remember roughly how many customers you
had a 50 million error yeah I mean it's
400 something like that yeah in that
range I kind of tried to back into this
um I think your AR numbers are the right
but I've roughly said by 500 to a
thousand at the latest if you're
Enterprise you got to have a second act
exactly it turns out as you're
approaching 10 5 000 to 10 000 for SMB
you just start hitting it's just kind of
the gnats once in a while there's
exceptions as you say right
um but even usually when you peel back
the exception usually the footprint of
the products expanded a lot right that's
exactly right yeah everyone has to do
something expand so nine nine is kind of
relevant to this which is Yo not being
patient it's kind of again all my
lessons are kind of semi-contradictory
but they they sort of fit together I
think there's an element also though of
realizing whatever Market you're in
putting aside like you've launched act
two in the market you're in you just
sometimes can't force it and I I mean
God there was so much fomo I'm like I'm
extremely susceptible to fomo like if
anyone if there's any car anyone party
going on anywhere I want to be there
right now right and so I'm very
susceptible to it so like fomo was the
all-time high in you know the 2019 20 21
like all those times how come we're not
snowflake how come we're not data breaks
we're not going that fast right and so
one of the things I learned like to
quote the great you know Hamilton and
Aaron Burr is you sometimes you gotta
wait for it and like you know in this
case you got a couple hundred million
dollar business now and that's not the
biggest business in the world it's not
the fastest business but I'm proud of
what we've done and and a lot of times
the things that the mistakes we made
were like rushing you know for example
trying to close a deal that wasn't
really ready and that that inevitably
doesn't turn into a good customer
success story shipping a product before
it's ready you know hiring up people
before we really are ready for them all
that kind of stuff so you kind of have
to wait for it would be my view
um and then that's a tough one though I
know I don't want to it's just so
interesting because it turns out when
you look back it didn't really matter
whether you grew 71 percent or 78 that
year right and then you've got to strive
for it but um but that's that's weird
Paradox of recurring Revenue right it
really matters how much you're growing
going forward and not exactly the the
the little details behind you that's
exactly right and yeah one deal doesn't
matter or that but in the short term it
feels like every quarter matters so much
actually I remember like what you know
early on you know it was we great
investors like one of them you know
Audrey agrawal being Capital Ventures I
remember like you know he just invested
and we were tiny couple like maybe three
million of error and you know we our
board plan was 600 Grand of a new ACV in
the quarter and we did 300 and something
and I was so embarrassed because we came
like 50 a plan and I remember going to
this board meeting it's our tiny little
conference over this crappy office and
RJ's like look Nick years from now like
nobody's gonna care all with you did 300
600. it's really about like do you have
a plan to get the company to 100 million
of AR 200 whatever right and so there's
some element of like really thinking
long term and the short term doesn't
matter but it's very hard when you're in
the moment so very hard easier said than
done last one is I guess maybe a good
summary of everything which is just like
not you know realizing like a lot of
leadership success is just like figure
out who you are and trying to like be
more of yourself like lean into whatever
you're really good at not trying to be
somebody else and so that's the danger
of watching presentation on mistakes
from other people of danger of all
advice is like you can't take it too far
because it's about being yourself I'll
just tell you a funny story to close so
I um you know we have this pulse
conference every year uh pulse 23 13 was
our first one Jason was there and yeah
the first one was a great conference it
went really well and so I remember
getting like like I'm going to be a
professional company let me get like a
speaking coach
um I'm hired this person who's actually
I think she's really good at her job and
you look like a professional speaker in
this in this picture you could be the
next Tony Robbins or something like this
but if you get the software just be a
motivational speaker there you go but
but listen to The Story So 2013 I do my
normal if you see me speak normal Nick
made a thing right 2014 I I go to this
speaking coach and she's like Nick you
talk too fast you have too much energy
you're too enthusiastic you should write
your speech down read it in a much more
measured pace and um and that's your
you'll be a great presenter and don't
move around so much and so I did it now
I'd encourage you to go to Google and
watch the pulse 2014 Keynote it is
literally the worst keynote I've ever
done in my life and it's it's a joke in
the company and and actually Anthony my
old TMO we always joke about it it's
like cringy because it was me trying to
be somebody else I am never going to be
anyone but the ridiculously high energy
super positive I'm just that's just me
right and and I'm not gonna be anyone
else and so when I over time kind of
learned is like it's it's boring not
being me and so that's why I became the
guy that does the carpool karaoke videos
and the the rap video on stage and the
Ted lasso spoof and things like that if
you've seen any of this it's it's it's
me like that's the only version that
works so that was kind of like I guess
the mega learning maybe a good way to
sum it all up
that is a good learning uh we're all
acting as CEOs The Meta question is how
much what how much are we acting and how
are we acting right that's exactly uh
you know I think we're acting as a just
a better version of ourselves that's
exactly right 100 right
foreign
[Music]